#282 General page on dast tools. (#283)
OWASP/www-project-developer-guide: draft/08-verification/02-tools/01-dast.md

  float: right;
}
</style>

Dynamic application security testing (DAST) represents a non-functional testing process to identify security weaknesses and
vulnerabilities in applications. The testing process can be carried out manually or be automated. Manual assessment of an
application involves human intervention to identify security flaws which might slip from an automated tool. Usually
business logic errors, race condition checks, and certain zero-day vulnerabilities can only be identified using manual
assessments.

### 6.2.1 DAST tools

DAST tools are programs which communicates with a web application through the web front-end in order to identify potential
security vulnerabilities in the web application and architectural weaknesses. It performs a black-box test. Unlike static
application security testing tools, DAST tools do not have access to the source code and therefore detect vulnerabilities
by actually performing attacks.

#### Different DAST tools

The OWASP Community projects contains a [list of DAST tools][dast] can be used to conduct DAST. All of these tools have
their own strengths and weaknesses. If you are interested in the effectiveness of DAST tools, check out the

> [OWASP Benchmark][benchmark] project, which is scientifically measuring the effectiveness of all types of vulnerability

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[OWASP Benchmark][benchmark] project, which attempts to scientifically measure the effectiveness of all types of vulnerability
```

Author: said and done.
